# Thringen

Languages Spoken: Thring, Eastern Tayn, Imperial Common

The Thringen, or Thringana in their own tongue, are a people related to the [Tayns](1-1a-culture_Tayn.md) native to the foothills and mountains of eastern [Lynnla](2-1d-region_Lynnla.md). Although their language and spiritual customs are similar to the Tayns, they are believed to have culturally diverged from the Lynns and other Taynish groups centuries prior to the establishment of the Kingdom of Lynnla, reflecting instead a holdout of the tribal societies that once dotted the northern provinces.

Due to their decentralized clan politics, they have had little power over the centuries to resist displacement by first the lowland kings and lords in what eventually became the Kingdom of Lynnla, and much later the expansion of the Kaldrinic Empire. Now, the Thringen are largely relegated to living deep in the dense forests of the Greenrock Mountains. However, this arrangement is not an ill fit, as they are a people whose lives revolve around a close association with the forest. Although technically an agrarian society with established villages, a substantial portion of their food comes from hunting game in the woods and gathering mushrooms, berries, and natural root vegetables. This has remained sustainable due to the abundant and resilient ecosystem of the Greenrock Mountains and a careful respect for the balance between man and nature, and a deep understanding of when intervention is needed to maintain that balance whether magical or not.

They are also expert woodsmen, scouts, and hunters. Reportedly, the historic Lynn nobles would only trust a Thringen as a scout for their armies. And though the Lynns of old largely ignored or disparaged the “forest people”, in a pinch they would turn to Thringen Druids for the most mysterious of ailments and problems.

The Thringenla are self-admittedly poor at metal-smithing, having limited access to raw metals and a preference for lighter materials. However, their woodworking and leatherworking skills are considered some of the finest in the northern provinces, rivaling even the skills of the elves. Certain clans also became adept at working with the copper found in portions of the mountains, though its use was mostly limited to jewelry, ornaments, and other items of great value. They are also known for breeding Brica Ponies, which are stouter than typical horses but are adept at climbing up and down the hills and navigating the uneven forest ground.

Some Thringen tribes are associated with the more northern Isarick Mountains, known as the “Grey Thringen”. Due to the harsher conditions of the Isarick Mountains compared to the Greenrocks, the Grey Thringen were purported to be meaner, tougher, and quicker to a fight. To an extent this was true, as the Grey Thringen were known to leave the mountains to raid neighboring communities to supplement their supplies, especially following colder winters and poor growing seasons. Despite this, the Grey and Green Thrigen still viewed themselves as close kin. By the 400s K.E., Imperial incursion, integration into Lynn communities, and dwindling resources meant the population of the Grey Thringen had dwindled to only a few thousand. By then, the Grey Thringen were viewed by lowlanders more as raiders and bandits than a full-fledged society.
