# Lightsong's Journal

## Thyrsdae, Aprel 14th, 442 KE

My salubrious companions and I decided to accompany Hawk Vorplen to his 
mistress, Cherri, who had sent us toward Hawk and the Lizard Bachelor.

My fellow squisher, Flim Flam, is quite exhausted at this point. I was too, you know.
We get back to the Elm Snake and chat with the bouncer shortly and jovially before
he lets us in.

### Cherri's Place at the Elm Snake
- Girish Grog. Half orc.
- Hawk Vorplen.
- Cherri gives us 10 platinum a piece.

A good long rest.

## Furdae, Aprel 15th, 442 KE

We took a good rest. I feel better, at least physically. 
Tea and porridge with some sugar in it. They didn't have any sweetrolls. 
A always loved sweetrolls. Extra sugar will do.

Shaheila magic yelled 'approach' to Hazar.

We then discussed next steps.

Shaheila put a boon on my corporeal form. If I would go down in combat, 
I would instead be left with a thread of consciousness. (_1 hp when would go to zero, one time use_)

We walk toward Cherri to finish business. 

Cherri says Chakri is coming to Laighfuar this upcoming week.
They're going to hold a military parade.

THE THIRD LEGION OF THE BOAR - TREE KILLERS.

SHAHEILA MUST KNOW.

Hazar is a bit of a wimp. Doesn't want to infiltrate.

### To the old man and the dinghy (The Blue Flame)

We do the rigamaroll with the lantern. Into the Dinghy we go!
Coastream! The blue door! 6 up the road. Blue Lantern.

We meet Mindelrian. He's a lad of the Lighthouser's guild.
The Lighthousers! I should've known they'd be here. They're everywhere in the Empire.
Ixor (mage) was mentioned. Hmm. Curious.
Looks like the Boat Man forgot to give us a key or something.

Ellbeyod Ovrianiah (or, however those silly Elves spell it), 
a more senior member, the Poisoner, I think he said? Interesting, I suppose.

We're in the Lighthouser's Outpost of Laighfuar.
Martin Dersheneviet, human, is the Guildmaster of the local chapter.
We strike a deal to meet the Dutchess in council.

The quartermaster Ninemriard has weapons we can purchase.
Thurysso barges in. Martin simmers him down.

### At the Lighthouser's Outpost, in Coastream

#### Buying from Ninemriard
From Ninemriard I bought a rabbit's foot. The other items were too expensive.

#### Hazar's Reveal
Ixor recognized Hazar. We learned that Hazar used to be a Lighthouser, interesting!
Left in disgrace after his rival killed his lover. He played Dead. 
Then he actually died and came back with us. How fun.

#### We ask Ixor for help





